>> Will Sentance: Let's go
into Pair Programming folks,
we're gonna start encountering
these things first, and
then, afterwards, actually resolving
them and seeing how they work.
So you're gonna start seeing
high order functions first, and
then we're gonna start actually
resolving them ourselves.
So, we're gonna use Pair Programming
to do so, this is by far and
away the most effective way
to grow as an engineer.
If you've done it before,
you probably already know this, but
we're going to do it in
a really effective way here.
Take a look at this, if you
are building yourself as an engineer,
you fall into often two very risky traps.
One is the researcher and
one is the Stack Overflower, both
are avoiding what it really is to be an
engineer, which I'll tell you in a second.
The researcher avoids what
it is to be an engineer,
which is to be able to hit a whole
block and somehow resolve through it,
that is all it is to be an engineer,
how do we actually do that?
I should have figured out,
here's how we do it,
here's how we actually resolve hitting
a whole block we go through the code.
When we on that bit that's blocking us
line by line and understand the data, they
call it the state, the live data as you go
through line by line, that is debugging.
It's hitting a block and assuming
the code, and then console logging
essential using some other debugging tool,
the data as you go through, line by line.
We love to avoid doing that though,
we will do anything to avoid doing that
process, we gonna get in that habit of
doing so we'll do anything we can,
including one or two these things here.
We become the researcher, that block,
we look at the mystery bit,
maybe it's a new key word.
And we spend the following three
days reading every last thing about
the new keyword, and about all aspects
of the prototype chain, and wonderful.
And yet we don't write a single
line of code, we avoid the block,
the other approach is to grab snippets of
code to fix a bug from Stack Overflow.
And when that one when we plug it in,
doesn't work,
take that snippet plus the bit we added.
Put it in the Stack Overflow, and say,
how do these bits, stick together?
Neither is effective in its own isolation,
both are necessary to being an engineer,
you've done this in the first year
of your careers, both of these.
That's probably, yeah, that's how it is,
but you've gotta get better at
balancing those two and the really
important bit which is just going through.
And analyzing the code yourself line by
line by line with the help of console logs
or the help of some
sort of debugging tool.
And then yes, going to understand and
building your underlying principles
understanding that's the researcher.
And yet taking snippets that sometimes
you just go, I don't know how it works,
is magic but it works,
that’s part of being an engineer but
you gotta get that balance right.
And the route to do so
is Pair Programming,
you get to tackle tough blocks and
you got a partner in crime alongside you.
You get to stay focused on the problem
at hand because you can’t run away.
To make a cup of tea, because they're
literally sitting there right beside you,
and you also can't spend too
much time doing these things.
So the researcher,
I still remember my first time pair
programming with a guy called John.
And he sits next to me, and
he's like, do you mind if we do some
sort of reading up on this first.
And I said of course, and
then like eight minutes he then says,
do you mind if I get started, and
I was like I wanted to read up on every,
I wanna understand it all first, right?
I couldn't, my partner was waiting for
me they were ready to run, I also
couldn't just give them a code snippet.
I remember a time I was working with
paper and someone called Alice and
I couldn't just give them a code snippet.
Because they were like, won't talk
me through why we're using this,
how it's solving the problem.
We are fools when we pair programming
to verbalize and explain our code and
therefore not just make it work
alone some element of that but
understanding as we go.
And that's the other big piece here, it's
gonna refine our technical communication,
the way we pair program is this.
If I'm navigator,
I'm looking at the prompt and
I'm seeing it says,
I make it cool to Twitte API.
I'm now going to lead my partner their
hands are on the keyboard typing and
actually executing the code itself and
then verbally explain a strategy that
they must turn into actual code.
They can't get off, they can't do it their
way they have to take my explanation and
implement it and if they're not
understanding my explanation,
that's all in me.
I can't say, hey, actually,
let me just show you how to do it,
I've got to be able to
verbalize with such clarity and
precision intuitive style, that my partner
can actually turn it into real code.
That is remarkable, it's gonna refine my
technical communication beyond measure.
Why pair programming is so important as
a team doing these industry reviews with,
you know, engineering managers and
folks in industry for our curriculum.
This new curriculum is
what makes us do it, but
whatever they make us
review the new curriculum,
because it's government agency
that we're doing it with.
So there you go,
it's astonishing to hear them
talk about their senior engineers
that they are may be frustrated with.
Who cannot verbalize their code well,
that is a massive hindrance to a company.
So even if you're very seasoned,
this is a huge opportunity to
verbalize your code effectively.
So there we go, as I say, you're
gonna take a challenge, a prompt, and
one of this'll mean navigator.
I'm gonna be explaining a strategy
verbally, verbal pseudocode,
so to speak to a partner who's gonna
be executing it in actual code.
Okay, you're going to do it for,
you know, five minutes navigator,
five minutes driver and witch over.
If you do think by the way,
your partner's going off on a bad route,
don't block them,
don't say I think that's not gonna work.
Let it happen, press Run,
you're gonna see a bug is not a mistake,
the bug is something that you now know can
be used to identify what the problem was.
That's awesome,
you get to be a debugger with them
where you already know what's broken.
And something that weird error that's
like, you know, token whatever,
now, it's not a mystery.
It's something you actually can, you know,
what's behind the scene's wrong,
that's pretty nice actually.
Okay, and by the way,
half the time that may be right and
according to the strategy,
there we go people.
We're going to pair program and we are
going to do the old style and we're going
to go through this list of nine things,
have reached thing that you see here.
Give yourself a point to get
a total of between one and nine,
yes, so
if you've done all of these before,
you've covered all of these,
your score is, total out of, nine.
I don't know how that got cut off, a total
out of nine, if you've done all of these,
you've got a score of nine.
If you've done three of them in any order,
score of three, five of them in any order,
score of five.
Okay, once you know your tally,
people, we are back to the old
school Harry Potter style.